>> I'm Kerry Hazelgren and I am the
Automator Engineering Manager
and this is embracing Automator
workflows with your application.
I would like to start out today by introducing some
new features that we've added to Automator for Leopard
and then we'll go into the real session or topic
of our session, which is how you can embrace,
or integrate Automator into your application.
So for our, for Leopard we have a new user interface,
definitely some similarities with the tiger user interface.
But we've sort of refreshed it
and brought it forward to Leopard.
We've also added a few niceties and some tweaks
like having the log integrated into the main window,
instead of in a drawer and things like that.
We also have a new mechanism for organizing actions,
which is by category rather than by application.
We feel this is more natural way to organize
actions representing an easier right,
or a better flow for how you want to accomplish your tasks.
We also have groups.
Now what are you going to put in those groups?
Actions, we got a way that if you have a workflow
or an action in your workflow and you configure it,
set it up how you want it, you can then drag it to the
library, into a group that you created and that's now part
of your library and you can use it whenever you want.
We also have smart folders, we've, we ship with three
default smart folders but you can also create more
as specifies criteria for them and they'll
always be up to date and however you want them.
So we also have an integrated results view in every action.
This should make debugging a little easier.
As you can see once the workflow is run you can look
at the results for any action and see what they were,
see if the action actually ran properly or what.
We have over 30new actions.
RSS is one big set of new actions
we have to deal with RSS feeds.
We also have some Quartz Composer actions, and a Take
Video Snapshot action which we'll feature later on.
There's a built in media browser.
A lot of workflows deal with media such
as iTunes or iPhoto or Aperture media.
So it's really nice to be able to quickly get at
that media and add that data to your workflow.
We also have recording feature
Now this will let you click the record button in the
toolbar and Automator will start recording your actions
and when you're done it will add a
Watch Me Do action to you workflow.
So whenever that Watch Me Do action runs
it will replay the steps that you recorded.
This is really handy for automating things
that normally would be difficult to automate.
Such as if you are working with a non
scriptable application for example.
One of the biggest new features
that we have are workflow variables
and this lets the user customize how
the workflow will behave when it's done.
And the user can create variables of their own or choose
form a set of default variables that we ship with Automator.
You can also use variables to sort of store the output of an
action to a variable and then perform some other operations
and then later on read that data back in from the variables.
So it can act as sort of a store and
retrieve mechanism for your workflow data.
As we'll also talk about later you can programmatically set
and get the values of those variables as, through API's.
Now we have starting points and this is, this starting
points is a sheet that comes down when you open
up a new document and the design, the purpose is really
to let you quickly get started building your workflow.
So by making a few choices and clicking the
return button Automator will add a couple,
one or two actions that will hopefully provide your workflow
with the data that you are going to be working with.
And then now we come to new public APIs that
we have added to the Automator Framework
that will be the main topic of our session today.
That basically with a workflow and your
application you can create an application
that has more features then it would otherwise, you know you
can quickly add features to you application so to talk more
about that I'd like to introduce Emily
Kim who is on the Automator team.
( Applause )
>> Emily Kim: Hi I'm Emily and today I am going to talk
to you about adding workflow support to your application.
Let's take a quick review of Automator.
Automator is an application used
to create automated workflows.
If there is something you do repeatedly, you can create
an automated workflow to do this process for you, great.
Workflows are made of one or more actions.
Actions are bundles of code that are designed to do
pretty much one particular task and then you can put a UI
on top of it and configure that tasks behavior.
Once you've created your workflow you can
run this workflow from a variety of places.
You can run it from within Automator,
as a stand alone application
or as a plug in for something like iCal or Finder.
And now in Leopard with the new APIs we are going to
provide you, you can now run workflows in you application.
So this is great, you can have all the
power of Automator in your application.
Now some of you might be wondering well if Automator is
for automating things there's nothing in my application
that I need to automate, you know
what am I getting out of this session.
Well I'm getting there don't worry.
If any of you were paying attention in Betrand's State
of the Union on Monday you would notice that he said,
he said two key phrases that I want to emphasize.
The first is Encapsulation and Reuse.
The second is Building Fast.
Now with Automator in Leopard you
can do both of these things.
Automator actions are in the library and essentially they
are just pieces of code that other people have written
for you in a tiny little bundle,
you drag and drop it into Automator.
I don't know how much more Encapsulation and
Reuse that you can get then that, I mean really.
And then when you come to Building Fast, all you do is add
these actions to you workflow and you've got a workflow
that does something for you just from drag and drop.
If you can put the functionality of this workflow in your
application you barely even have to write any code to do it,
it was drag and drop and suddenly you
have a new feature in your application.
If that's not Building Fast, I mean I don't know what is.
So with that in mind workflows can sort
of act as plug-ins for your application.
And then Automator essentially becomes your plug-in
development environment, there by becoming the new Xcode.
Note the sweet icon.
So let's get you a concrete example of how you
might be able to use this technology yourself.
Say you're a developer for a photo application, something
kind of like iPhoto where you can see your pictures
and they look great and then one day your boss comes
to you and he says you know everyone's really excited
about those new iSight cameras on their computers.
Let's have a feature that uses those,
so you got to say to yourself okay then
that sounds like a good idea, iSight are fun.
But how do you go about adding
this feature to your application?
Some people may know, some people may not and even if you
do kind of have an idea you still have to do the research
and figure out which framework that you need to pull
in and then how those API's work and then do you have
to do your own UI and then how do you debug it and you
know it's a lot of work so even if you knew where to start
from you would still have a lot of code to write.
So now picture for a moment, you can go into
Automator, take out that new Take Video Snapshot action
that Kerry mentioned earlier add it to your
workflow, add that workflow to your application
and suddenly that's the feature that your boss asked for.
Sounds crazy, maybe, but lets bring Kerry up
on stage and he'll show you how it's done.
( Applause )
>>Kerry: Not that crazy.
Okay so here I have a sample application
that I wrote and it's really great.
It's called photo browser, it displays photos but
it really doesn't really do much more then that.
So as Emily said, my boss asked me to create
a function or a feature that takes a photo.
So how am I going to do that?
Well I'm going to start by creating an Automator workflow
and here's my starting points dialog
that I talked about earlier.
I am just going to start with an empty, an empty workflow
so I am just going to choose the custom selection.
Now if I go to the photo's category I can see
all of my photo related actions and down here
at the bottom there is a Take Video Snapshot
action and that's the one that I want.
So I drag it to my workflow.
I have a couple of properties that I can choose
from, I'm going to save it to the pictures folder,
when the snapshot is taken, then I am going to
leave the rest of it alone because I don't want
to take it automatically, I want the user to take it.
So that's my workflow and I am just gonna save it like that.
Oh mistype.
Save it again.
I am going to call it Take Photo's.
I meant to save it to the desktop, oh well.
So there we have my workflow.
Now if I go and I am going to look
that up again, there it is.
I am going to drag and add that
workflow to my Xcode project.
So I am just going to drag it over here
to this workflows folder that I created.
Now anyone that used Xcode has seen this dialog before.
The one thing you have to know about adding a workflow
to your project is that this setting right here
that say recursively create groups for any added folders.
A workflow is actually a bundle and if
you add a bundle to your Xcode project
and you have this set, it won't work properly.
The idea is that when your project is build and your
application is created it will bundle the workflow inside
of your applications bundles so you need
that bundle to be intact so we are just going
to change this to create folder references.
Trust me it won't work unless you do that.
And even in Xcode it doesn't look quite like a
workflow, it looks like a folder but it will work.
Now we have our workflow in our Xcode project.
I previously wired up the toolbar item that you saw,
that when it is pressed it will call this Take
Photo action, the Take Photo method I should say.
So let's look at the code that we are going to run.
And the user clicks the toolbar button.
First we are going to start by getting a path to the
workflow that we want to run, and it's in our main bundles
that so we just call path for resource,
take photo of type workflow.
Sorry, oh did I name it wrong?
Alright and once, well I would know, I would find
out later but thank you for saving me the time.
Once I have the workflow object I can
just call this AM workflow class method,
its one line and what it will do is load the workflow and
execute it and return the result back to my application.
So I call run Work flow at URL and I pass a URL
that we create from the path with input I'm not going
to pass any input this time so I just passed nil and then
there's an error perimeter that Automator can let me know
if something went wrong wither
loading the workflow or executing it.
So if I have a result and there is no error then I
know that it executed properly and I have a result.
Now in this case the result is an array of one item
and that item is a path to the picture that was taken.
I know that because that's the output of that one action.
But this can change depending on whatever the
action, the last action in the output returns.
It could be Cocoa strings or it could be
AppleEvent Descriptors or what have you.
So I just call this method that I wrote in my app, that
doesn't really concern our demo it's just going to take,
it's just going to add those items
to the photo browser object.
So let me build and run this.
And here we have our app again and if I click this it
should take a picture and I am sorry the pictures of me,
but here we have it and if I click return, there it is.
I get the result in my workflow.
( Applause )
>> So that was really easy.
It's a simple one action workflow but obviously you can add,
you know you can have a workflow with however many actions
in it and still for the developer you only have to do
a couple of lines of code so its scales really well.
And so to continue and talk about what we learned, Emily.
(Applause 0:14:35 to 0:14:39)
>> Emily: Slides please.
Okay. So what did you learn in this demo?
Kerry showed you how you can create an Automator workflow
and add an action to it then once you added the workflow
to your applications Xcode project you can and add a couple
lines of code you've pretty much added a brand new feature
to your application that your boss is thrilled with
and it was so easy that even my manager could do it.
So clearly this is great technology.
But this is really the tip of the ice burg.
This was just one line and workflow class
method and you can run this workflow.
But what if you wanted to set the input of the
workflow if maybe get at the actions in the workflow.
We need something more powerful but before we get to into
that let's take a step back and look at the big picture.
This is Starry Night by Vincent van Gogh, painted
in 1889 and when he was still pretty insane.
Now you might be wondering what does
Starry Night have to do with Automator.
I'm also getting there trust me.
Lets say somebody gave you this a blank canvas and
a paint brush and they said paint Starry Night.
I'm no artist and most of you are probably not
artist either and even those of us who are artist,
it would probably take us years to try
to recreate van Gogh's master piece
and even when we were done it probably
would look nothing like Starry Night anyway.
But then lets say someone gave you a paint by number version
of Starry Night all you have to do is connect the numbers
on the colors, how hard can that be and suddenly
even like you or I could create Starry Night.
Now imagine that your application is like that blank
canvas, you want to add features to your application,
you want it to be great but your just
maybe not quite sure how to do it
or it might take you a really long
time, you just don't have the resources.
Now what if an Automator was like your
paint by number version of your application,
then all you'd have to do is create the workflows with
drag and drop and then stick them in your application
and suddenly you got fully a featured
application that you developed quickly and easily.
Either that of you have Starry Night,
one or the other so both are great,
so to tell you more about this technology we're
going to talk about the Automator Framework now.
And the three workflow classes we've
made public for you in Leopard.
The first on is Automator workflow,
this is the model object for workflows.
The second is AM workflow controller.
And the third is AM workflow view, big surprise.
So these three classes follow the model
controller design pyridine and are meant
to be implemented directly so don't sub class these.
But first let's go more into detail on AM workflow.
Taking my water break.
I'm building up the anticipation.
So AM workflow is the workflow model object.
You can load this workflow from disc and then once
you have the workflow you can access the actions in it
or you can set the input for the
workflow or get and set variable values.
So how do we allocate an AM workflow object?
First you have some NSURL that points to a workflow in disc
and then you allocate the object by
calling in it with contents of URL.
And you also have an error parameter so for some
reason the workflow isn't created you can check that.
Now what we do once we have this workflow?
Well we can look at all the actions
in the workflow, that's great.
Once you have this you can also add actions or remove
actions as well as insert them or move them around.
So basically you can do anything
programmatically with the workflow and its actions.
You can also set the input of the workflow so if you
have the workflow in your application and you want it
to interact more directly with your application you
can for example pass it, call set input on the workflow
and pass in objects from and Automator will work with them.
Kerry also mentioned that a new feature
for Automator in Leopard called variables.
You can programmatically get and set variables by calling
value for variable with name and then passing it the name
of the variable that you are interested in.
or you can also call set value for variable of name
giving it the values you want the variable to have.
So now that we talked about AM workflow you might be
wondering well you know I still have all these things
and I want to run the workflow, so we don't have,
so you saw already that you can run a
workflow using the AM workflow class method
but to run a workflow object you
need AM workflow controller.
So that's what we are going to talk about now, how
to run you workflow using AM workflow controller.
The controller is the controller objects for workflows
and this is how you ruin an AM workflow object.
You can also set a delegate on the controller and implement
delegate methods there which we'll talk about in a bit.
But first running the workflow, we have AM workflow that we
created before and we've done whatever it is that we wanted
to do to it, so we're set, we want to run this thing so
now we have, we create a controller which can also be found
in the Automator pallet in interface builder three.
Then you simple call set workflow on the controller,
and you give it the workflow object
and then you call run, that s easy.
It may not be one line of code but its still
now just four, so it's really not a big deal.
You can also set a delegate on the controller to receive
call backs for status updates when the workflow is running.
So to do that you simply call set delegate on
the controller and you give it the delegate.
You can implement several delegate methods
including when the workflow will run or stop as well
as when actions will run or stop and if the workflow fails.
And for example, to something useful you could do with
this is you could update the UI in your application
and give user feedback on the status
of the workflow while it's running.
So we've talked about AM workflow and
we've talked about AM workflow controller.
But talk is cheap.
Let's see this thing in action.
So I am going to invite Kerry back
up on stage for another demo.
He'll show you how you can create a workflow object and
how you can set a variable value in the workflow as well
as set the input for the workflow so it
can interact more with our application
and then he run the workflow using
AM workflow controller so Kerry.
>> Kerry: Thanks Emily.
You heard that so easy my manager can do it thing right?
If she's not here next year you'll know why.
Okay so in this demo I want to add a new feature to my
application, to take whatever photos I select and add them,
create an Email message, put them in an Email message
so that I can send them to friends and family.
I'm going to do it a little differently this time
though using AM workflow and AM workflow controller.
I already have my workflow here that I am going to run.
It's already in my project, if I just
right click and open with Finder,
we can open it up in Automator and see what it looks like.
So there's three actions, copy Finder items, I want to
make a copy of them first because the second action,
a scale image is going to you know alter
them in a way that is not undoable.
So we are going to copy them and we are going to scale them
down to a size that's good for fitting in an Email message
and then we're going to create that Email message using the
new mail message action which when its past files as input,
it adds those to the body of the mail message.
Now there's one more thing that we want to do with this,
I want to, I want to create a variable to use as a subject
of my Email message, because I want
to have it different each time.
So if I right click in the subject field, I can see
that at the bottom there is a new variable menu item
and I am just going to choose that and it's going to
create a variable and put it in that field and then pop
up this window that lets me edit the variable.
I am going to call it subject and I am not going to give
it a value, I am going to do that when the workflow runs,
so just erase that and then click done and then my workflow
is ready for me to, I'm done with the workflow now.
So let me just close it and go back to my project.
Now let's look at the code we're going to
run when we want to execute the workflow.
So Email photos here is the method that gets called
when I got a new toolbar item that you'll see
and when the user clicks that its going to call it
my Email photos method and again what we are going
to do is start by getting a path to the workflow.
Once we have that instead of calling the class
method to run and execute it what we're going
to do is actually allocate an AM workflow object.
What we do is call AM workflow end it with contents
or URL, creating a URL form the path to the workflow
and then there's also an error parameter.
Now the next thing we are going to do is determine what the
subject of our variable, or what the subject is going to be.
So we sort of get the paths to the photos that were
selected and we see if there's just one and we are going
to take the name of that photo, if there's
more then one then its going to be the name
of the first photo and how many ever more.
So when we done all that work to determine what the
subject is we are going to set that as the values
of the subject variable calling
set value for variable with name.
Then we're going to set the input of the workflow to be
the path to the photos that we selected and we are going
to tell workflow controller here's
your workflow by calling set workflow.
And finally we're going to run it.
So if we build and run our application, again we have our
photo browser application and we have an Email toolbar item.
So let me select the lady bug and the
rhinoceros here, I mean the zebra.
Sorry looks like a rhino doesn't it?
And if I click Email then I get an Email
message with the two photos that I selected
and the subject is ladybug.jpeg and one more.
And just for demo purposes lets
just select a couple different ones.
We can see it adds those and we
have a different subject this time.
So this workflow for example just to give you an idea
of the time savings here its just a little more
complicated then last time cause we were talking
about three very different technologies and these actions,
one is in the file system interacting and copying files,
the second one calls into the image library to scale it,
the third one calls some apple script code to tell mail
to create a new message and to add those again instead
of having to learn those different technologies
and implementing them in your application,
this workflow a simple drag and drop
and again very little code to implement it.
So to go over again we will bring back Emily.
( Applause )
>> Emily: Slides please.
Thanks. Thanks Kerry.
So what did you learn in the demo?
Kerry showed you how you can allocate AM workflow
objects and how you can set variable values
for this objects as well as set the input for them.
And then you saw how you can create AM workflow
controller objects and use them to run AM workflows.
So we've talked about AM work flow, and
we've talked about AM work flow controller.
I am guessing that the next one
is going to be AM work flow view.
So AM work flow view, this is essentially the view
that we have in auto mater, so imagine taking that view
with all the actions in it and
putting that in your application.
So this is invaluable for a number of reasons, first
of all, not only can you and your users view work flows
from within your application, no more having to switch
applications and going from your app to auto mater and back
but in your application you can see these.
And not only can you see them but you can edit them.
Let's say for example this gives your users so much more
power than they could if you had just created some feature
for your application and then shipped it with that.
Let's say you really like the color
eggplant purple, but someone's like "I don't
like that color, I want it to be, you know, tomato red."
if you put AM work flow view in your application they
can just go to the color well and choose tomato red
and be perfectly happy and the best part about
that is you didn't even have to write any UI
to provide this customization for your user.
All you have to do is stick in the work flow view and some
develop, action developer has already done the UI for you.
All you have to do is put it in your
application and let the user go to town.
So how do you get name work flow view in your application,
the work flow view is also in the auto mater pallet
in interface builder three and so using IB three's
new lovely library we have the auto mater pallet
in there and the work flow view.
So, that's what it looks like, the controller is also in the
pallet so you can hook those guys up in interface builder
or you can do it programmatically
by creating a work flow view
and then in the controller called
set work flow view with that view.
So, seems easy enough so lets see is
Kerry can manage this in his next demo.
He's going to show you how you can use AM work flow view
and he'll show you that, he'll implement a delegate
for the controller and show you how you can update
your UI depending on the status of the work flow
and then he'll also show you how you can allow
users to customize feature of your application.
Please don't fire me.
(laughs)
>> Kerry: it should not be this much fun presenting
WWC sessions I swear (clears throat) okay, so um,
what we want to do is I'm going to show you how
to use a AM work flow view in your application.
Hello? Yeah can I get a demo machine?
Okay actually we're just going to look at the code
because we've already wired it up in interface builder
and she showed you a screen shot of that um
what we're going to do differently here is
that in the previous two examples
is when a user clicked on one
of the tool bar items we loaded the
work flow and executed it all at once.
This time we're actually we want to pre load the work flow
because we want the user to be able to configure it first,
and then when they click on the
tool bar button it will execute.
So I have this set up add color work flow method that I
call from the awake from Nib method in my window controller
so this gets run when the window in opened and again I don't
think there's really much new here oh well I guess there one
line new, we take a work flow path
and allocate a work flow object,
an AM work flow object then we have a work flow controller,
I have a new work flow controller for this method just
because I didn't want it to get
away, in the way of the other ones
but I'm allocating a new work flow
controller just using alloc init,
there's not special initializer for AM work flow controller.
Then we tell the work flow controller here's your
work flow view, the work flow view is initiated,
instantiated in the Nib so that's a reference is an
I-bar, so the work flow controller's that work flow view
with our work flow view we also set the work flow for
the work flow controller now they work in harmonies
so if you set a work flow view on a controller and you give
it a work flow it will automatically load the work flow
in the work flow view and you can do those in either order
and it'll just automatically load and display the work flow
so you don't have to worry about how you
display a work flow in a work flow view.
Now we're going to set a delegate this
time so we can get delegate methods
as the workflow runs and I'll show you those.
Now when the user clicks on the tool bar
button, it's going to call this add color method
and there's not much left to do at this point.
We basically just set the input for the
workflow with the paths to the selected photos
and then we tell the workflow controller to run.
Now the rest of this code here are delegate
methods and there's several of them,
but they all just use slight variations of the same
thing, like when the workflow controller is going to run,
just before it starts running, I have a text field
and a progress indicator at the bottom of the window
and I just want to display progress, so when the
workflow's about to run I am just setting up the minimum,
the maximum and the starting values
of the progress indicator.
And then when say down here when the workflow is
about to run an action, I just put in the text field
that we're running this action and the
same when the action finishes running,
I say it finished running such and such an action.
Now there's one more thing I do is that when
the workflows done I have to get the results.
So, this is a little wordy, but basically what I'm doing
is getting the out put of the last action in the workflow.
And that's essentially the output of the workflow.
So I'm asking the controller for it's workflow and
then getting the actions array from the workflow,
getting the last one and asking for its output.
And then I'm adding those items back
into my workflow, into my photo browser.
So this is a way that you can add a little more control.
If something happens that's wrong
you can stop the work flow.
You can perform additional setup or
follow along if your application needs to.
but those delegate methods aren't
necessary, they're just for your convenience.
Okay. So now lets run building around
this workflow or application I should say.
Now if I make this a little bit bigger and expand this,
you can see that there's a workflow view already in here.
Whoo, now Emily said we want to add a color to it.
But we might want to, as the user, I
might want to change what color it is.
So let me change it to a nice red and I'm going to select
a couple of images here and click the add color button.
As you can see there's, well it actually allocated
pretty quickly, but you can see there's the results.
I'll do it a couple of more times so you can see the
progress here at the bottom in the progress indicator.
So you can see that it's actually keeping the
workflow as I specified, assuming I'm the user,
and it's returning the results to my application.
So there you have.
Now Emily.
( Applause )
>> Emily: That was unplanned, him doing
Tomato Red and Eggplant purple, by the way.
So slides, please.
Thank you.
So what did you see in that demo?
You saw how to use an AM workflow view in your application.
And you also saw how you can set
a delegate on the controller
and to implement delegate methods
and update your application's UI.
You also saw how you can allow customers,
op, this is what you will learn.
Same thing.
So you did learn all of that.
And you also learned how you can allow users
to customize your application's features.
And in doing so, we learned how to use all three of
the workflow classes that we've made public in Leopard.
So, we've now talked about AM workflow and
AM workflow controller and AM workflow view.
There's only three circles on there.
So that's a pretty sure sign that we're close to the end.
So don't worry.
Let's take another step back and
look again at the big picture.
What have we learned in this session today?
First Kerry told you about some of the new
features that we have in Automator in Leopard.
We hope you're thrilled to start using these
features and we had a fun time making them.
So feedback is great.
We also learned how you can make Automator
your plug-in development environment.
It really doesn't get much easier
than just dragging and dropping.
And if you just remember that paint by number example that
I gave, making applications suddenly becomes really easy.
We also learned how you can utilize all three
of the new workflow classes that we've added
in the Automator framework, and in doing that you
can add trivial amounts of code to your application
and get non trivial features out of that code.
You've also learned how you can
empower the user with customization,
with allowing them to customize their
experience with your application.
So often with rapid application development environments,
the programmer just wanted to get the application
out the door really quickly and make money.
But the user usually ends up having to suffer because
of that, because the programmer wasn't really thinking
about the user, he just wanted to be done quickly.
However, if you use Automator as your rapid application
development environment, not only do you save time,
and you still get your application out the
door quickly, but the user also benefits
because you've given them a workflow view and they
can customize how they want that feature to behave.
Everyone profits.
So with that, you now know how you can deploy fully featured
applications quickly and easily using the three classes
in the Automator framework, AM workflow, AM
workflow controller and AM workflow view.
So with that, I hope you will all go out and
embrace Automator workflows with your applications.
( Applause )
>> Emily: Thanks.
I especially liked the hug gesture.
Everyone should hug their neighbor.
So for more information, you can contact Matt
Drance, our sharing technologies evangelist.
And there's also an automated developer's mailing list
that you can join and get your questions answered.
And for documentation and other sources,
you can go to the developer website.